# Neurobasher
Neurobasher can be best described as a modular synth if it were designed by a broke RHCSA. It functions like a modular synth, but instead of modules, it uses dedicated nodes to produce sounds with SuperCollider that are synced via PTP to avoid the massive NetJack overhead.

# Quick-start guide
0. Before you get started with Neurobasher, ensure that you have met all the requirements in the [prerequisites page](https://github.com/LogsieSA/Neurobasher/blob/main/PREREQUISITES.md), if you do not know what to buy, check out the [how to get started page](https://github.com/LogsieSA/Neurobasher/blob/main/HOWTOGETSTARTED.md).
1. Once you have gathered the minimum requirements, head over to the [BIOS configuration page](https://github.com/LogsieSA/Neurobasher/blob/main/BIOSCONFIG.md).
2. Select and download the images from the [images directory](https://github.com/LogsieSA/Neurobasher/tree/main/images) which have the instrument and function that you want.
3. Learn how to play the instruments that you picked in the last step.

# Final note:
This project's entire purpose is to show people that they do not need to spend thousands to achieve their goals, originally, after seeing [Colin Benders Live at ToyToy, Johannesburg](https://soundcloud.com/colinbenders/live-at-toytoy-johannesburg-07-06-24) I wanted to buy a modular synth, assuming that the modules were not as expensive as they were. I then thought that 200 USD for a circuit board which can only generate a sine wave was practically extortion, I thought about the circuitry involved, attempted to learn how to design circuits and decided to just use old, stripped down computers to do the same thing. I researched how I could sync the audio across many different nodes and another expensive solution, Dante and AES67 was given to me. At this point I was angry at these seemingly unavoidable prices, so I sat down and brainstormed any possible, cheaper solution. I realized that I do not need to send the entire audio stram over ethernet if I could just send a small packet with a timestamp and synchronise it that way. This solution works better in more ways than just tight syncronisation, it would allow me to output each individual node's audio into a mixer and smoothly fade the sounds in and out, much like a real modular synthesizer. I did not want to run everything off one PC, my side-job as a Systems Administrator would not allow me to have a single point of failure, my creative side wanted me to do something that has never been done before. With this motivation, I began to work on this project. When I was not working on it, I was thinking about better ways to do what I wanted to do with it. 

This instrument will not be easy to play in front of a live audience, anything at any time can fail, so keep spare nodes plugged in and at the ready at all times. It is, however, designed to be ready for this failure. In the event of the total failure of a node, there will not be a sound which seems stuck, there will not be total silence like a laptop performance would have, it will at most sound like an aux being unplugged, the nodes that did not fail will keep playing because they are independent of other nodes, there will not even be a pause.
